---
layout: post
title:  "My Resume"
date:   2020-08-14 20:39:33 +0300
Author: "Azad Rasul"
comments: true
---

AZAD RASUL<br/>
Department of Geography, Soran University<br/>     Soran, Erbil, 44008<br/>     9647507358574     azad.rasul@soran.edu.iq
### PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Soran University, Soran, Erbil<br/>
Lecturer, Mar 2010 - Present 
*	My students became professional in using technology to support their research. 
*	Improved lectures and syllabus in our department with our contributions. 
*	With my supervision, students successfully completed their scientific desertification.
 
University of Leicester and Copernicus Global Land Service<br/>
Project Assistant (part time), Nov 2016 - Mar 2020 
*	Assessing the quality of a global burned area product
*	Data handling 
*	Coding in Google Earth Engine
*	Report writing 
 
University of Leicester and Starlab LTD. Funded by European Space Agency, Leicester<br/>
Research Assistant, May 2016 - Jul 2016 
### EDUCATION
##### University of Leicester<br/>
Leicester, Leicestershire<br/>
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Geography (Sep 2016)<br/>
Relevant Coursework: Remote Sensing , GIS, R programming<br/> 
##### Luhansk Taras Shevchenko National University<br/>
Luhansk, Luhansk<br/>
Master/Geography Geography (Jun 2009)<br/>
Relevant Coursework: Using computer technology in scientific and educational activities, Thematic cartography and computer map manufacture, Natural resources use and preservation, Ecologically geographical problems of Donbass nature protection<br/> 
##### Salahaddin University<br/>
Erbil, Erbil<br/>
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) Geography (Jul 2000)<br/>
Relevant Coursework: Geographical statistics, Cartography, Computer, Remote sensing, Agricultural geography, Water resources, Geography of natural resources 
### SKILLS
*	Languages: English, Arabic, Russian and Kurdish.
*	Advanced skills using Google Earth Engine, ENVI, QGIS, GeoServer, ArcGIS, Python, and R.
*	Strong analytical skills and problem solving abilities in the field of work
*	Excellent skills in producing well-structured technical documents and operational procedures
*	Demonstrated analytical and creative problem-solving skills
*	Excellent analytical skills and cross-functional thinking
*	Process validation: Performing of validation for automated production process and being pro-active in suggesting better, more efficient alternate solutions

### LICENCES AND CERTIFICATIONS
*	2nd ESA Advanced Training Course on Atmospheric Remote Sensing, European Space Agency, October 2014
*	An Inside Look at how NASA Measures Air Pollution, NASA's Applied Remote Sensing Training Program, May 2020
*	Forest Mapping and Monitoring with SAR Data, NASA's Applied Remote Sensing Training Program, May 2020

### CONFEENCES
*	Climatological, Meteorological and Environmental factors in the COVID-19 Pandemic, Virtual Symposium organized by World Meteorological Organization, August 2020.  
*	The first conference on current state of research and applications of GIS and remote sensing, Soran University, Iraq, October 2019
*	RSPSoc Annual Conference, Nottingham, UK, September 2016
*	9th International Conference on Urban Climate, Toulouse, France, July 2015
*	Centre for Landscape and Climate Research Annual Conference, Leicester, UK, November 2013

### PROFESSIONAL MEMBERSHIPS
*	International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing
*	American Society of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing
*	Canadian Remote Sensing Society
*	International Association for Urban Climate

### PUBLICATIONS
*	Rasul, A.; Balzter, H., 2020, “Relationship between monthly climatic variables and worldwide confirmed COVID-19 cases”, preprint. <https://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3626108>
*	Rasul, A., 2020, “Global Spatial Relationship between Land Use Land Cover and Land Surface Temperature”, in review.
*	Rasul, A.; Ibrahim, S.; Onojeghuo, A.; Balzter, H., 2020, “Modelling leaf area index and land surface temperature to assess their changing trends and relationships from global to regional scales”, in review.
*	Rasul, A.; Ibrahim, G.; Hamid, H.; Tansey, K., 2020, “A trend of increasing burned areas in Iraq from 2001 to 2019”, Environment, Development and Sustainability. <https://doi.org/10.1007/s10668-020-00842-7>
*	Ibrahim, G.R.F.; Hamid, A.A.; Darwesh, U.M; Rasul, A., 2020, “A GIS-based Boolean logic-analytical hierarchy process for solar power plant (case study: Erbil Governorate—Iraq)”, Environment, Development and Sustainability. <https://doi.org/10.1007/s10668-020-00862-3> 
*	Rasul, A.; Omar, L. W., 2020, "Land surface temperature anomalies detected for some strong earthquakes in 2018", ARO, Accepted. 
*	Hameed, H., Ibrahim, G., Rasul, A., 2020, “Effects of Land Cover Change on Surface Runoff Using GIS and Remote Sensing: a Case Study Duhok Sub-Basin", in: Environmental Remote Sensing and GIS in Iraq. <https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-21344-2_9> 
*	Tansey, K.; Rasul, A.; Ibrahim, S., 2020, “Scientific Quality Evaluation Report 2019 Burned Areas 300m V1”, Copernicus Global Land Operations. <https://land.copernicus.eu/global/sites/cgls.vito.be/files/products/CGLOPS1_SQE2017-2018_BA300m-V1_I1.10.pdf>
*	Ibrahim, G.; Rasul, A.; Hamid, A.; Ali, Z.; Dewana, A., 2019, “Suitable Site Selection for Rainwater Harvesting and Storage Case Study Using Dohuk Governorate”, Water, 11(4). <https://doi.org/10.3390/w11040864> 
*	Rasul, A., 2019, “An investigation into the location of the crashed aircraft through the use of free satellite images”, Journal of Photogrammetry Remote Sensing and Geoinformation Science, Volume 87, Issue 3, pp 119–122. <http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s41064-019-00074-z> 
*	Rasul, A.; Dewana, A.; Saed, S., 2019, “Multi-model tourist forecasting: a case study Kurdistan Region of Iraq”, Tourism and Travelling, 2(1). <http://dx.doi.org/10.21511/tt.2(1).2019.04>
*	Saed, S.; Faqe, G.; Rasul, A., 2019, “Water quality effects on Kidney Dieses in the slums area of Erbil City, Iraq”, International Journal of Geography and Geography Education, 40. <https://doi.org/10.32003/iggei.523583> 
*	Rasul, A.; Balzter, H.; Ibrahim, G.; Hameed, H.; Wheeler, J.; Adamu, B.; Ibrahim, S.; Najmaddin, P., 2018, “Applying Built-Up and Bare-Soil Indices from Landsat 8 to Cities in Dry Climates”, Land, 7(3), 81. <https://doi.org/10.3390/land7030081>
*	Rasul, A.; Balzter, H.; Smith, C.; Remedios, J.; Adamu, B.; Sobrino, J.; Srivanit, M. and Weng, Q., 2017, "A review on remote sensing of urban heat and cool islands", Land, 6(2), 38. <https://doi.org/10.3390/land6020038>
*	Rasul, A.; Balzter, H.; and Smith, C., 2017, “Applying a normalized ratio scale technique to assess influences of urban expansion on land surface temperature of the semi-arid city of Erbil.”, International Journal of Remote Sensing, 38. <http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01431161.2017.1312030>
*	Rasul, A.; Balzter, H.; and Smith, C., 2016, “Diurnal and Seasonal Variation of Surface Urban Cool and Heat Islands in the Semi-Arid City of Erbil, Iraq”, Climate. <https://doi.org/10.3390/cli4030042> 
*	Rasul, A.; Balzter, H.; and Smith, C., 2015, “Spatial Variation of the Daytime Surface Urban Cool Island During the Dry Season in Erbil, Iraqi Kurdistan, from Landsat 8”, Urban Climate. <http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.uclim.2015.09.001>

### REVIEWER OF JOURNALS
*	Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing
*	Remote Sensing
*	International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health 
*	International Journal of Geo-Information 
*	IEEE Access
*	Urban Climate
*	Sustainability
*	Climate
*	Sustainable Cities and Society
*	Spatial Information Research
*	SAGE Open
*	Remote Sensing Applications: Society and Environment
*	Landscape and Ecological Engineering
*	Arabian Journal of Geosciences


[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/

